For the arms and legs we're gonna do something a little bit different.
As I mentioned these still have the mirror modifier on them both the legs and the arms and the way we're
gonna do this is since they're going to be symmetrical they're going to look exactly the same on the
left and the right.
We're just going to use v map one side and then we'll go through the entire process of packing all the
U V islands into one u v map and when we're all done with that we're gonna come back and re add the
mirror modifier and apply it.
And what that will do is that will put the U V island of say the arms the left and the right on top
of each other basically reducing by half the amount of space on the texture map that the arms will take
and we'll do the same thing with the legs so we'll stack the U V islands of the legs one on top of the
other as well and that just helps reduce the amount of space we need for the U V islands and therefore
increasing the resolution for everything that's on there and this happens quite a bit for 3D objects
3D characters that are symmetrical to begin let's just remove the mirror modifiers for the legs and
the arms and let's maybe begin with the leg here I'll just press the division key again to isolate it
with press control a and apply the scale it's tab and edit mode and let's see what we can do here I
think we could probably.
Well first of all I'll just select these edges down here and let's go ahead and add a seam to the bottom.
Here control e Mark seem we go next I think let's just add a seam all the way around on this side as
well.
So once again all shift click all the way around to here and let's press control e and Marcus seam here
and then let's go do that on the other side as well so let's press Alt and click there.
And I'll go ahead and select these and here and here and then we need to select this area right in here.
And these individual ones right here and here and here and here.
And let's see how this works.
I'll press control e and Mark seam and let's go ahead and give it a try.
I'll press a to select everything you and unwrap.
Yeah that doesn't look too bad actually.
This seems ok I've extended this out right here this right here you can see it right there.
So that's this piece right there.
I think that's so.
The only thing that seems a little odd to me is this whole piece right here if we think all a you can
see that it extends all the way over the top and I don't know that we need to do that because this area
up here isn't really going to be seen.
So we could go ahead and add a seam to this one edge control e Mark seam and then that will split it
up into two pieces.
So let's try this.
Let's select everything you and unwrap.
Yeah.
So that splits it up into two pieces here.
Okay let's now work on the arm.
I'll tap back into object mode.
Hit the division key and let's select the arm.
Now this is really made up of two pieces.
One is the hand and the other is the arm.
So perhaps what we should do is tab in edit mode and maybe select this piece.
Just the hand I'll hover over this and press the L key to select that whole piece.
And then what we could do is press shift H and that will hide everything that isn't selected so not
only did we isolate it with the division key but now we've pressed shift H to hide everything that isn't
selected.
Okay.
So for this we could probably split this along this edge here I'll press Alt and click and I'll shift
and click all along here so we have this piece of press control e and Mark seem let's grab this piece
down here
this edge right along here and this right here.
So let's mark that seem and then we should probably split this maybe right here so we're splitting the
inside from the outside of the hand here with this seam alt click control e Mark seem so we're going
to have this piece right in here as its own piece and then I think we could just split this right here
just give it a seam around the wrist Mark seam there and then we should open this up.
So it isn't just a a circle.
Let's go ahead and give this a seam right here as well.
Yeah let's do that.
So it opens up that cylinder flat All right let's give it a try.
I'm going to tap back into object mode first and press control a and apply the scale and I'll tab back
into edit mode.
That's the A key press you and unwrap and yeah.
That looks actually pretty good.
We've got the outside or the edges of the hand here the inside and then the outside and then the wrist
is laid out flat here.
All right.
I think that'll work.
Let's take a look at the arm now so to bring the arm back while we're still here in edit mode.
I'll press Alt H.
And that brings that back.
Now I can deselect everything and then hover over the arm and press the L key.
And now once again we can press shift H to hide the UN selected part.
Now okay.
So for this we should probably try and hide a seam in here by the torso.
Right.
So let's press Alt and click this edge and that will select that edge in here by the body.
We probably don't need these so I'm going D select these with shift click and then I'm going to press
Alt shift and click here to select that edge right around there.
Yeah.
Let's give this a try and press control e Mark seem we've already applied the scale for the whole object
of the arm and the hand.
So I think we could just select everything and let's try it again.
Let's hit you and unwrap.
Now we're getting some pulling here and if we switch from conform all to angle based that helps a little.
But let's apply that UVA test pattern to this and see how it looks.
To do that with this here I could come over to this pole down and we can select that material.
We had a call that material something I'll call it UVA test here.
So we've just applied that material to this object now.
And now let's come over to our look devil.
Once again middle mouse button click and drag to move that header over and let's select.
Look Dev right here and there we can see our test pattern you can see it's kind of wobbly and stretched
here up around this cylinder.
Let's switch it to conform and see what we see here.
Not a lot.
It looks like it threw away our material let's go ahead and select that material again there we go so
once again we've got some pulling here around this cylinder as well so it would probably behoove us
to go ahead and split this cylinder out just from the rest of the arm.
So I'm going to all click this edge right here and press shift e and let's Marcus seam here and let's
see how this works so I'm going to once again press the A key to select everything.
Press you and unwrap and let's see how that works out that works out a little bit better I think.
Let me press you and unwrap it again and let's switch from informal to angle based and actually angle
based seems a little bit better to me.
Well let's give this a try all right.
And there we have the whole arm now.
I'll go ahead and switch back to the solid display and let's hit the division key and there we have
it.
We've got our entire character now.
You v mapped.
Each piece has its own u v map with its own individual u v islands.
So what we need to do now is combine all of these together into one u v map.
I see that the arm is still split out or the hand is still hidden away.
Let's press old H to bring that back.
There we go so in the next video what let's do is take all of these objects combine them together and
then will arrange and pack all of those u v islands that we've created into one single u v map.